# lists
_COSC 101, Introduction to Computing I, 2021-11-01_

## Announcements
* Homework 7 due Thursday

## Outline
* Warm-up
* Creating lists and accessing items
* Operations on lists
* Programming practice

## Warm-up
Q1: *Write a function called `gene_simlarity` that takes two equal-length gene sequences and returns the number of nucleotides that match. For example:*

* `gene_similarity("ATAT", "ATAT")` should return `4`
* `gene_similarity("ATAT", "ACAT")` should return `3`
* `gene_similarity("GCTCGA", "GCACCA")` should return `4`

<p style="height:20em;"></p>

🛑 **STOP HERE** after completing the warm-up; please **DO NOT WORK AHEAD**. If you have extra time, work on the extra practice problems.

## Creating lists and accessing items

Q2: *What does the following code ouput? If a particular print statement causes an error, describe what is wrong with that statement; assume subsequent print statements still execute.*


```python
v = [13, 42, 99]
w = ['the', 5, 'statements are', True]
x = [6, [4, 2], 0]
y = []
z = ['a', ['b'], ['c', 'd'], ['e', 'f', 'g']]

print('a)', len(v))

print('b)', len(w))

print('c)', len(y))

print('d)', v[1])

print('e)', z[2])

print('f)', y[0])

```


```python
print('g)', w[-2])

print('h)', x[1][1])

print('i)', w[2][0])

print('j)', len(v[2]))

```


```python
print('k)', len(z[0]))

print('l)', len(z[3]))

print('m)', w[1:3])

print('n)', z[:2])

print('o)', v[1:][0])

print('p)', x[:2][1][1])

print('q)', v[:])

print('r)', x[2:][1][1:])

```

🛑 **STOP HERE** after completing the above questions; please **DO NOT WORK AHEAD**. If you have extra time, work on the extra practice problems.

## Operations on lists

Q3: *What does the following code ouput? If a particular print statement causes an error, describe what is wrong with that statement; assume subsequent print statements still execute.*


```python
x = [5, 15]
y = [10, 20, 30, 40]
z = ['q', ['r', 's']]

print('a)', [1, 2] + [3, 4])

print('b)', [5, 6] + x)

print('c)', x + y[1:3])

print('d)', x + 25)

```


```python
print('e)', x + ['t'])

print('f)', [7, 8] * 2)

print('g)', x * 3)

print('h)', y * 0)

print('i)', x * 2 + y)

print('j)', 5 in x)

print('k)', 'r' in z)

print('l)', ['r', 's'] in z)

```

🛑 **STOP HERE** after completing the above questions; please **DO NOT WORK AHEAD**. If you have extra time, work on the extra practice problems.

## Programming practice
Q4: *Assume a list of integers has been assigned to the variable `nums`. Write a snippet of code that updates each item in the list to be twice its old value. For example: `[1, 3, 5]` would be updated to `[2, 6, 10]`*

```Python





```

Q5: *Assume a list of integers has been assigned to the variable `nums`. Write a snippet of code that updates each item to be the sum of the values up to and including the item being updated. For example: `[1, 3, 5]` would be updated to `[1, 4, 9]`*

```Python





```

Q6: *Assume a list of strings has been assigned to the variable `words`. Write a snippet of code that updates each item to be only the first three letters of the original item. For example: `["January", "February", "March"]` would be updated to `["Jan", "Feb", "Mar"]`*

```Python





```

Q7: *Assume a list of strings has been assigned to the variable `words`. Write a snippet of code that updates every other item (starting with the zeroth item) to be the reverse of the original item. For example: `["January", "February", "March"]` would be updated to `["yraunaJ", "February", "hcraM"]`*

```Python





```

## Extra practice
Q8: *Write a more sophisticated `gene_similarity` function that can handle a pair of gene sequences with different lengths. For example:*

* `gene_similarity("ATAT", "AT")` should return `2`
* `gene_similarity("ATA", "ACAT")` should return `2`
* `gene_similarity("GCTC", "GCACCA")` should return `3`

<p style="height:18em;"></p>


```python

```
