# Hello, Python: "input-process-output" programs; reassignment
_COSC 101, Introduction to Computing I, 2021-09-03_

## Announcements
* Homework 1 posted; due Thursday at 11pm
* Complete readings and pre-class questions before each class period

## Warm-up
\#1) _Write a program that calculates the area of a rubgy field, which is 100 meters long and 68 meters wide._

```Python





```

\#2) _Write a program that calculates the area of a volleyball court, which is 16 meters long and 8 meters wide._

```Python





```

\#3) _Are there any patterns you observe?_

```

```
🛑 Stop here after completing the warm-up; if you have extra time please **skip ahead** to the programming practice.

## "input-process-output" programs

_Evaluate the following programs. If input is needed, provide your own. Indicate what output is produced, if any. If an error occurs, specify what type of error._


```python
#1)
name = input("What is your name? ")
count = len(name)
print("There are " + str(count) + " letters in your name.")
```

```

```


```python
#2)
year = input("What year is it? ")
year = year + 1
print("Next year is", year)
```

```

```


```python
#3)
human = input("How old are you? ")
dog = int(human) * 7
print("You are", dog, "years old in dog years")
```

```

```

\#4) _Write a program that asks for the length and width of an athletic field and prints the area._

```





```

\#5) _Write a program that asks for the cost of an item and prints the tax amount and total cost with a tax rate of 8%._

```







```
🛑 Stop here after completing the above questions; if you have extra time please **skip ahead** to the programming practice.

## Reassignment

_For each program: (1) indicate what it will output, and (2) draw a reference diagram depicting the state of each variable after the program has executed._


```python
#1)
fruit = "apple"
vegetable = "beet"
fruit = "cranberry"
print(fruit, vegetable)
```

```

```


```python
#2)
x = 'ab'
y = 123
x = x + 'c'
print(x, y)
```

```

```


```python
#3)
r = 1
s = 2
r = r + s
s = r
print(r, s)
```

```

```


```python
#4)
first = "Computer"
second = "Science"
third = first + second
first = 101
third = third + str(first)
print(first)
print(second)
print(third)
```

<div style="page-break-after:always;"></div>

## Programming practice

\#1) _Write a program that plays a short game of mad libs: ask for three words and fill them in a sentence. (E.g., They **verb** the **adjective** **noun**.)_

```






```

\#2) _Write a program that asks for a temperature in fahrenheit and outputs the temperature in degrees celsius. (To convert: subtract 32 and multiply by five-ninths)_

```





```

\#3) _Write a program that asks for three integers and prints the average._

```








```

\#4) _Re-write the above program to use a single variable whose value is reassigned._

```







```

\#5) _Write a program that converts a time in seconds into hours, minutes, and seconds. For example, 4567 seconds is: `1:16:7` (1 hour, 16 minutes, and 7 seconds)._
