# definite vs indefinite iteration; while loops
_COSC 101, Introduction to Computing I, 2021-10-06_

## Announcements
* Homework 4 due tomorrow at 5pm
* Single DEI reflection due Tues, Nov 30

## Warm-up
_Write a function called `only_letters` that takes a string and returns true if the string only contains letters, and false otherwise._

```















```
🛑 **STOP HERE** after completing the warm-up question; please **DO NOT WORK AHEAD**. If you have extra time, work on the extra practice problems at the end of the worksheet.

## Definite vs indefinite iteration

_For each of the following situtations, determine whether it is definite or indefinite iteration._

\#1) Roll a 6-sided die 20 times and count the number of times a 6 is rolled

```

```

\#2) Roll a 6-sided die until a 6 is rolled

```

```

\#3) Count the number of letters in a string

```

```

\#4) Ask the user to enter words (one at a time) until they have entered 100 words

```

```

\#5) Ask the user to enter words (one word at a time) until they have entered at least 100 characters

```

```
🛑 **STOP HERE** after completing the above questions; please **DO NOT WORK AHEAD**. If you have extra time, work on the extra practice problems at the end of the worksheet.

## while loops

### Practice understanding while loops
_What is the output of each of the following programs?_


```python
#1)
total = 1
while total < 16:
    total = total * 2
    print(total)
```

```




```


```python
#2)
a = 6
b = 5
while a >= 0 and b > 0:
    print(a, b)
    a = a - 2
    b = b - 1
```

```




```


```python
#3)
i = 1
while i < 5:
    if i % 3 == 1:
        i = i + 1
    elif i % 3 == 2:
        i = i - 1
    print(i)
```

```




```

### Practice writing while loops
\#1) _Write a function called `ask_words` that takes an integer and prompts the user to enter words (one word at a time) until the total number of characters entered equals or exceeds the provided number._

```










```

\#2) _In the biological process of cell division, a parent cell divides into two daughter cells. Each of these two daughter cells then divides into two grandaughter cells. Each of these four grandaughter cells then divides into two great-grandaughter cells, etc. In other words, the total number of cells doubles with each round of cell division. Write a function called `cells` that takes a number of rounds of cell division that occur and returns the total number of cells that exist after the specified number of rounds. Assume you start with a single cell._

```












```

\#3) _Again, consider the biological process of cell division. Write a function called `rounds` that takes the number of cells that should exist, and computes the number of rounds of cell division that must occur to have at least that many cells (asuming you started with a single cell)._

```












```

## Extra practice

\#1) _Write a function called `get_donations` that takes a fundraising goal (in dollars) and repeatedly asks the user for donation amounts until the fundraising goal has been met. The function should return the total number of donations entered._

```















```

\#2) _Various measures of public health (e.g., number of active cases of COVID-19) are often reporting using a rolling average (e.g., the average over the past 7 days). A slight variation of a rolling average is an estimated weighted moving average (EWMA), which takes a fraction of the previous average and a fraction of a new value and computes a new average. For example, the 7-day EWMA of active COVID-19 cases is computed using the following formula:_

`new_average = previous_average * (6 / 7) + todays_count * (1 / 7)`

_Write a function called `compute_ewma` that takes the previous average and the current count and computes a new average._

```








```

_Write a function called `monitor_average` that takes a threshold and asks for daily case counts until the EWMA exceeds the threshold._
