# COSC 101A Homework 10; Fall 2021

The due date for this homework is **Thursday, December 9, 5:00pm EDT**. You **must complete the homework on Replit** and **use the run button** (not the shell) to runt he code.

This assignment is designed to give you practice with the following topics:

- Decision trees and random forests
- Modules
- Nested lists

## Introduction
In class, we used the [scikit learn module](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/) and a tiny dataset to train a decision tree to predict whether or not something flies. Your task is to build a better predictor by:
1. Expanding the number of entries and features in the dataset
2. Using a better machine learning algorithm — random forests

Your repl includes the dataset (`thing.csv`) and program (`main.py`) we used in class.

## Expanding the dataset
For the first part of this homework you must expand the dataset that is used for training the classifier. You must add **20 new entries** (i.e., rows) and **3 new features** (i.e., columns) to the dataset (`things.csv`). 

Your new entries **must not be biased** toward a single category of things—e.g., your new entries must not all be birds. Your new entries also **must not be biased** toward a single class—e.g., your new entries must not all be things that fly. 

Your new features should help the classifier improve its accuracy on things for which it currently makes inaccurate predictions—e.g., the decision tree we trained in class incorrectly predicts that penguins fly. **At least one of the new features must be a boolean** feature; use `0` to represent `False` and `1` to represent `True`. **At least one of the new features must be a numeric** feature—e.g., number of legs.

After you expand the dataset, make the necessary changes in `main` to ensure the new features are used during training and prediction.

## Using random forests
For the second part of this homework, you must extend `main` to also train and predict using a random forest. 

The `RandomForestClassifier` is part of the `ensemble` submodule of the `sklearn` module. The [sckit learn user guide](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/ensemble.html#forest) provides an example of how to train a random forest classifier. Your random forest should have size 10 (i.e., `n_estimators=10`).

The program should output two predictions: one based on a decision tree and one based on a random forest.

## Submission Instructions

Please upload your `main.py` file to Gradescope. Remember to **complete the questions at the top of the `main.py` file**.

## Grading

Your assignment will be graded on two criteria:

1. Expanded dataset [50%].
    As discussed above, you must add **20 new entries** (i.e., rows) and **3 new features** (i.e., columns) to the dataset (`things.csv`). You will partly be assessed on the **diversity of your entries** (e.g., your new entries must not all be birds or things that fly) and the **usefulness of your features** (e.g., number of eyes is probably not a useful feature for differentianting whether or not something flies).

2. Updated program [50%].
    As discussed above, your main function must:
    1. be extended to use the new features for training and prediction, and 
    2. be extended to train and predict using both a decision tree and a random forest of size 10.

## Challenge problem

The challenge problem for this homework is to modify the program to divide the data into a training set and a testing set. The testing set should be created by selecting 10 random items from the full dataset. The remaining data should be used for the training set.

The training set should be used for training both the decision tree and the random forest. The trained decision tree and random forest should be used to predict the label (`flies` or `does not fly`) for each item in the testing set. The program should output the expected label and the prediction from each model. Finally, the program should output the total percentage of correct decision tree predictions and the total percentage of correct random forest predictions for the testing set.
